---
title: "Hi, I'm Transgender"
slug: hi-im-trans
type: post
date: 2022-03-31
draft: false
tags: ['transgender', 'nontechnical']
---

___Originally posted 3/31/2022 [on
Medium](https://medium.com/@langma/hi-im-transgender-5a191deb4003)___

tl;dr version available [here](https://tinyr.us/hi-im-trans). That page is part
of FAQ/springboard [site](https://tinyr.us/trans101) for further learning about
transgender people and issues. If you choose not to read this, please at least
read the [postscript](#postscript).

Today is March 31st: the Transgender Day of Visibility. Leading up to today,
I've been asking myself some questions: What does visibility mean? What does it
mean for a person to be visible? For me to be visible?

I've also been thinking a lot about the nature of stories. The thing about
stories is that they are always approximations of truth. They're strict
subsets. They're linearly ordered, even if they're told out of order. They're
projections. They can obscure visibility, or at least one meaning of
visibility, to me: __authenticity__.

Who am I to you? The answer is a story. It's a narrative - a sequence of
experiences that we've shared with one another. If our relationship has
extended beyond this post, that story - no matter how full and rich or sparse
and dispassionate it may be - is a __lie__. The person that I am to you is a
carefully and purposefully constructed narrative. A story of who I am that I
tell the world and that I've also told you.

When I say that person is a lie, I don't mean a lie of _fabrication_. I mean a
lie of _omission_ - a projection. The story I've told you is incomplete. So,
today, I'm going to try to fill in some of the omission. I'm going to tell a
part of my story that has been my most closely guarded secret for 30+ years.
I'm going to try being as honest as possible, because there is a second meaning
of visibility that I want to talk about later.

Let's start our story here: I have known that I am transgender since I was a
very, very young child. Some of my earliest memories involve feelings of
incongruence between my gender and my body. The word "transgender," however,
was inaccessible to me at that time. I had no language for these feelings. That
would come much later.

When I was very young, I believed that there might be magic, and that maybe
through magic, I could be a girl instead of a boy. Every time I had to make a
wish, whether it blowing out candles, holding half a wishbone, or tossing a
coin into a fountain-_every_ opportunity - it was always the same wish. I would
wish that I was a girl.

When I stopped believing in magic in the late 1980s, I would watch shuttle
launches on TV. My family got a computer - an Apple IIe. Science was magical,
and it was advancing quickly. I convinced myself that science would have the
answer to my problem; I convinced myself that science could make me a girl.
Every wish was still the same.

I say "my problem" because it was around this time that I learned that there
was something ___wrong___ with me. This feeling that I had - that I was not a boy,
that being a boy wasn't right for me, that I could never really be a man - was
wrong. Immoral. Aberrant. Shameful.

I didn't know that there was a word for the feelings that I had - that I was
_transgender_ - or that they were nothing for me to be ashamed of. I don't think
many people in Ohio at that time had ever heard the word _transgender_. I
certainly didn't learn it in school, or the library, or anywhere else. People
had, though, heard of _transsexuals_. But they, like me, only knew what they saw
on TV, and in their mouths that word was used as if it were a slur.

The people I saw on TV and in movies made me feel both hopeful and shamed at
the same time. I saw the way that I felt about myself reflected in them, and
that let me feel like I was seen and not alone. But I also saw how the rest of
the world saw them: as freaks, as deviants, as [sexual
objects](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tb_H6NtxMtU). In my small world, I
never saw a trans person depicted with any humanity. Trans people
existed, but only for mockery.

For example, when I was 12 and squarely in its target demographic, the Jim
Carey comedy _Ace Ventura: Pet Detective_ was released. If you've never seen it,
here's a big [spoiler](https://youtu.be/IzRcNuhRgfI?t=165) (and the [final
reveal](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LCwjyTg5p2g&t=120s)…). If you don't
recognize the allusion to [_The Crying
Game_](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kFfL_oglHZw&t=25s) - released two years
prior - I didn't either at the time. 10 year olds weren't the target
demographic. Ace Ventura captured a slice of how transgender people were
represented in the media: we were repulsive. Even when sensitively treated (as
in The Crying Game), we [induced
vomiting](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Z-o1RVdnHE).

In the context of a world were trans people were the butt of Ace Ventura-like
jokes or the subjects of scandalous episodes of Jerry, Geraldo, or Sally
Jessy-existing only to be paraded about and laughed at - my shame grew into a
deeply-held conviction: __if anyone really ever knew me, they couldn't love me. I
was fundamentally unworthy of love.__

As a result, I worked as hard as I possibly could to repress and ignore these
feelings - feelings about who I was. I'm not going to say that this was a
successful strategy, because it has caused me a great deal of pain. But, by
ignoring who I am, I have made it pretty far. I have reaped a lot of benefit
from living as a man - especially a white man - and the privilege and second
chances this has afforded me.

---

_\[CW: suicidal ideation, suicide, anti-trans legislation, anti-LGBTQ
rights\]_

If any of my story so far sounds familiar to you, like other stories you've
heard from trans people, it is because it is not at all unique.

It is here that I'm going to inject a little politics for the sake of another
notion of visibility: __awareness.__

I often think about the fact that I am incredibly lucky to be alive right now.
I have thought about killing myself since I was about ten years old. I still do
not quite believe that suicidal ideation is abnormal. I have never told anyone
this, but it wasn't until very recently that I thought that I could trust
myself to own a gun (fwiw, I don't own one). __I am very lucky.__ If I was not
fortunate to have a supportive and caring partner or to be graced with a loving
family, I am __one hundred percent certain__ that I would not be alive right now.

It is only through luck and privilege that I am here to tell you this story at
all.

I say this because I think it is appropriate context for how terrifying it is
to watch what is being done to children right now, only for the sake of gaining
political capital.

If you are not watching the news closely or are not particularly interested in
LGBTQ rights, you might not realize the extent to which [children are under
attack](https://www.aclu.org/legislation-affecting-lgbtq-rights-across-country).
As of March 20th, there were [238 anti-LGBTQ bills
filed](https://www.nbcnews.com/nbc-out/out-politics-and-policy/nearly-240-anti-lgbtq-bills-filed-2022-far-targeting-trans-people-rcna20418)
in 2022 alone.

When we take away the (absolutely not permanent or dangerous) affirmative
health care that medical professionals have deemed necessary for trans kids, we
are killing children. [We are creating refugees within our own
country](https://www.newyorker.com/news/letter-from-the-southwest/at-home-with-the-families-affected-by-texass-new-anti-trans-orders).
When we prevent children from seeing
[any](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/23/us/what-does-dont-say-gay-actually-say.html)
positive representation of queer people, we are killing children. __[This is a
fact](https://news.utexas.edu/2018/03/30/name-use-matters-for-transgender-youths-mental-health/).__
__[Children will
die](https://www.thetrevorproject.org/resources/article/facts-about-lgbtq-youth-suicide/)
because of who they are.__ __I almost did, several times.__ If you have valued
my life, do something about this. The rhetoric around these children's lives is
[inexcusable](https://www.lgbtqnation.com/2022/03/republican-senator-asks-transgender-girl-genitals/).

I am choosing to come out today because this is just too fucking much. There is
too much hate against children. I am waking up every day to news stories that
would have - quite literally - killed me when I was a child. This is not
hyperbole.

If you are not paying attention to this, please start. I know that these
stories rarely make the front page of the Times or the Post. But these kids
__deserve to be visible.__ They deserve your attention. At the end of this post,
you'll find a list of organizations you can support and follow to stay abreast
of these issues.

_Aside: it is impossible to try to decide what to link to or to decide any one
specific issue to focus on. Every single day for the past couple years, there
has some new development or legislative movement to restrict the lives of trans
people and deprive them of civil rights. With the exception of a few incidents,
these have mostly targeted children. Children, as a political strategy._

_This is entirely separate from the daily discourse about the "threat" that
transgender people are to the safety of others, especially women and children.
A vulnerable and marginalized group of people that makes up ~1% of the
population has become the latest wedge issue. And the bad-faith, fictionalized
arguments about the legitimacy of and safety of trans identities have somehow
made trans lives a part of our political dialog. And in doing so, made the
human rights of people into an issue that has "both sides."_

_To be clear: the only "agenda" trans people have is to be able to live and
participate in society._

---

Sorry. I'm going to finish my story now.

In my 20s I stopped wishing to be a girl. I was an adult. So I wished to be
able to be happy instead.

It wasn't until I was in my 30s that I saw any real positive representation of
transgender people, or even met an out trans person. And when I did, I was
jealous. I was jealous that there were people who felt like me, but were able
to be themselves. I envied them for being transgender and for being able to be
transgender. I saw their happiness and the lightness with which they were able
to be present, and I ached for their freedom. I also saw the hate directed
against them, and ached for their pain.

It took a few more years for me to be able to give myself the space to realize
that __who I am is not fundamentally wrong__, something that I need to be
ashamed of, or that I needed to hide. Coming out to my wife was the hardest
thing I've ever done. Two years later, I came out to my closest friends and
family.

Unpacking and unwinding a lifetime of repression and self-hatred has not been
easy, but it has brought into the light a lot of things about what I value and
who I am. Through this work, I have realized that it is important to me to stop
hiding who I am - to stop lying. I want to interact with the world as myself,
not as a projection of myself.

So, I'm not ashamed: __I am transgender. My name is Marion. I am a trans woman.
I am gay and happily married to my wife. My pronouns are she/her.__

What comes next? Well, that's also part of this visibility. As much as I would
like for this transition to not be a mess, it will be.

Unfortunately the world does not obey a [two-phase
commit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Two-phase_commit_protocol) protocol and
the changes that are coming will not be atomic. It has taken me more than 2
months to get a court order allowing me to change my name (and I'm still
waiting). It will take a lot longer to update every ID, account, and profile
photograph that I have. Systems will still call me Matthew or Matt. You
probably will, too.

And that's ok! I have accumulated 40 years of life, friendships, memories, and
database records.

Also, it's going to be awkward. I'm bound to be awkward. I'm trying to figure
out how to be myself when I've already perfected being someone I'm not. I've
been going through a [second
puberty](https://transcare.ucsf.edu/article/information-estrogen-hormone-therapy),
as if the first wasn't enough (disclaimer: any cringe here is a result of that,
not me, who is _super fucking cool_).


__The only things that I ask of you are as follows:__

__Try.__ (Okay, that's just one thing.)

* Try to use my name and my pronouns. It will be hard and you will make
  mistakes, and that's ok. If she/her is just too much for you, please at least
  use they/them.

* Try to understand that __I am the same person.__ You already know me. The
  person that you know is still here, you just have a fuller story. These were
  lies of omission, remember? You are just going to get more of me. I'll be
  more present, more available, and more authentic.

* If this is hard for you, try to learn. I'm not going to ask you to change the
  way that you see the world or to change your beliefs, but at least try to
  understand what transgender people, scientists, and others are saying. My 
  [101 page](https://tinyr.us/trans101) has some basics. We live in a
  transphobic society, and we are all socialized with some transphobia - even
  me. Education is an important part of deprogramming transphobia.

* Try to talk to me if you have questions. I will try to be as open as I can
  be. And I won't judge you for anything you want to talk about. I would only
  ask that you refrain from asking any questions that are only relevant in a
  medical setting.

* Finally, if you see yourself as an ally, try to support the children who are
  in real and immediate danger. Try to support all of the trans people who are
  much less fortunate than a white person who had the luxury of being at the
  top of the social hierarchy for 40 years.

* Try to understand that trans women are women and trans men are men. We aren't
  women-who-were-men or men-who-were-women. Or men-who-act-as-women or
  women-who-act-as-men. We are women and men. Nonbinary identities are also
  valid; they are not alt-women or alt-men.

* Don't just try: __believe trans kids.__

That's about it.

Thanks for listening to my story and letting me be more visible to you.

---

<a name="postcript"></a>Postscript

The impetus for coming out now is the temporal alignment with the transgender
day of visibility and the introduction of some of the worst pieces of
legislation against trans kids.

I want you to know that I hesitated to tell my story to you like this, as I
feel it reinforces the fetishization of trans suffering and the reductive
narrative of trans lives that centers our pain. I decided to tell the story
like this because I want to highlight exactly how important it is that we act
__right now__ to protect children. I know that if you are reading this, you
probably know me. You might respect me. You might trust me. If you do, please,
please, please support trans children. They are very much at risk.

__Children will die if they are taught that they don't deserve to love
themselves, love others, or simply play a sport with their friends.__

The centering of trans children in politics right now is vile. As the
republican governor of Utah recently said: ["Rarely has so much fear and anger
been directed at so
few."](https://twitter.com/SpencerJCox/status/1506377742106853378)

(his veto was
[overridden](https://apnews.com/article/utah-transgender-sports-ban-3ffc9205bfbeb05ae3a72425950208ef),
btw)

Finally, here are some organizations that you can support:

* [OutMemphis](https://www.outmemphis.org/), supporting not only the Memphis
  area, but a large percent of the mid-south that is not served by any other
  LGBTQ+ advocacy organization.

* [Lambda Legal](https://www.lambdalegal.org/), supporting civil rights of
  LGBTQ+ people specifically.

* [ACLU](https://www.aclu.org/), supporting the civil rights of Americans broadly.

* [The Trevor Project](https://www.thetrevorproject.org/), supporting trans youth.

* [The Marsha P. Johnson Institute](https://marshap.org/), supporting the
  rights of black trans people.

* [Trans Lifeline](https://translifeline.org/), also supporting trans youth.

* [National Center for Transgender Equality](https://transequality.org/)

* [Transgender Law Center](https://transgenderlawcenter.org/)

* [PFLAG](https://pflag.org/), supporting trans people, parents, families, and allies.

---

Post-postscript: I realized, writing this, that I've only ever really wished
for two things. That's kinda weird. I have to find a new one.
