---
title: "Resting in your work (or: doing isn't enough)"
slug: hobby-projects
type: post
date: 2024-12-31
draft: false
tags: ['programming', 'growth mindset', 'hobby projects']
---

> Embrace a creative practice by doing low-stakes, reflective personal projects.
__Create__ and allow your creations to be imperfect sketches. Take advantage of
the freedom from pressure and give yourself space to rest, reflect, and
__learn__. Mastery requires it.

## Keeping a software sketchbook

A few weeks ago--with some free time during the Thanksgiving holiday--I sat down
to write a static site generator. 

The world didn't need another one.

Especially the bare-bones and completely undistinguished [one that I ended up
writing](https://github.com/ml8/sg).

The project doesn't really contribute anything new to the world; in fact,
there's not much that is novel in __most__ of my hobby projects. And that's on
purpose.

They are __sketches__. I'm not particularly proud of or attached to them, and
rarely do I do any hobby work that has any complexity or is algorithmically
interesting.

So, why?

There's a bunch of typical reasons that are given for this sort of hobby work:
maintaining a growth mindset, staying malleable in tools and technologies,
"staying up-to-date," etc.

But the way that I think of my hobby work is that __it is my creative
practice__. It is a way for me to __rest in my art__ as an element of a path to
mastery.

One could argue that my time would be better spent contributing to open source
projects. Things that I use, or things that others may find useful[^1].

However, I think there's a lot of value in these types of small and unpolished
toy projects, and that their value is derived precisely from the fact that they
are small and there is no expectation that they are polished, or even meaningful.

As professional software engineers, one of the things that we must recognize is
that our brand of engineering differs from other disciplines. Though we share a
disciplined and scientific approach to developing technological solutions,
software engineering has a high degree of creativity, and the lack of physical
constraints leads to a malleability and practically-infinite solution space.

Our best-practices and principles are abstract---DRY, Law of Demeter, SOLID,
design patterns, etc.---or loose suggestions. Software engineering is a
discipline of trade-offs, and our touchstone texts on software design provide
situational advice, at best.

In other words: we don't have handbooks; we have style guides and requirements. 

So, as a professional in a creative discipline, I think having a creative
practice is an important part of my growth. Just as artists have sketchbooks, so
do I---my hobby projects.
 
## Resting in our art

These software engineering sketchbooks are more than rote practice of technique.
By creating them, we create spaces for reflective practice.

Solving new---and even toy---problems forces us to practice our creativity,
adaptive thinking, and problem solving. And avoid stagnating. We talk all the
time about the importance of and the __why__ for having a "growth mindset."
Exploring new spaces through low-or-no-stakes projects is a perfect example of
__how__.

But these sketchbooks are also our personal galleries. Places to spend time
idling and processing---__resting__. When we leaf through our projects, or sit
deep within one, we give ourselves time and space to reflect on our work.

This sort of pressure, judgement, and risk-free reflection and consideration is
often not possible in our professional work, where, at the end of the day, we
must deliver some product to stakeholders. In our personal work, there is no
stakeholder, no urgency, and no risk.

We can ask ourselves what worked, or what didn't. We can start a project anew
with a different approach, informed by our reflection. This allows us _explore,
discover, and evaluate trade-offs_ in algorithms or design---real confidence for
how we might improve our work. 

When we experiment with new patterns, play with new tools, or work in areas of
the stack that we don't typically work in, we __develop theory__. Traversing
and building abstractions allows us to generate, discover, and evaluate theories
about principles and ergonomics.

What made this code easier to write? To understand? More performant? With looser
synchrony? And how may those ideas be translated to new domains or problems?

__This sort of theory crafting and application is not often possible or emerges
more slowly when our tasks are scoped to a particular product or feature.__

## Supported by educational psychology

Constructing, applying, and evaluating theory is required for mastery because it
is _how we learn and generate knowledge._ 

It is probably an uncontroversial statement to say that we __learn by doing__.
But what does this mean?

### Kolb's learning cycle

The idea of _learning cycles_ in educational psychology has existed for almost a
century and many different cyclical models for learning have been proposed. The
one that I---and I presume many educators (or former educators ðŸ˜…)---are
familiar with is one due to
[Kolb](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Experiential_learning).

![Kolb's Learning Cycle](/assets/learning-cycle.png)

In Kolb's model for experiential learning, knowledge is derived from reflection
about experiences; the learning cycle describes ___how___. It is comprised of
four macro phases:

* __Concrete experience:__ Something happens. We encounter something new, make
  an observation about the world, gather data from experimentation, etc.
* __Reflective observation:__ We reflect upon this experience. We consider
  whether the experience was something we expected or not. We think about how it
  aligns with what we already know about the world. What knowledge do we have
  that support the experience? Or is it contrary to what we know?
* __Abstract conceptualization:__ We try to incorporate this experience into our
  existing knowledge. We develop or augment theories and processes. We create
  __new hypotheses and beliefs__ about the world.
* __Active experimentation:__ We test our hypotheses. How can we confirm or
  refine our new understanding of the world? Can we add [justification to our
  beliefs](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/knowledge-analysis/#KnowJustTrueBeli)?
  What new experiences might help us understand more?

The model is cyclical in nature: as we encounter more experiences in the world,
we iterate. The importance of the cyclical nature is not just its repetition,
though, it is the relationship and dependency between each of these activities.

## Just "doing" isn't enough

What the cycle means to us is that knowledge is derived from traversing the
_entire_ cycle, not just elements in isolation.

__Doing, alone, doesn't generate knowledge, it is the reflection and subsequent
rethinking of what we might do---and then __testing this__---that does.__

So, is a toy project like a static site generator really meaningful to my growth
as an engineer?

I have certainly worked on infinitely more complex problems than this and
written infinitely better code to solve them.

However, doing this one-off project and allowing myself the space to write code
without any sort of expectations has permitted me the time and space to reflect
on the process. And to think about what I would do differently next time.

And by keeping a sketchbook and continuing to do these sorts of toy projects, I
ensure that __there always is a next time__ and that it is __a next time free
from expectations__. A next time that will also allow me to rest and reflect on
my (shitty ðŸ˜‰) work.



[^1]: Or that maybe I should be doing more complex projects, or ones with more
interesting algorithms, things that might build a more interesting portfolio
than a [skate dryer](https://github.com/ml8/attiny85-skate-dryer). That's
orthogonal to this post. ðŸ˜…
